1-Howl
Howl is the first boss in Ori and the Will of the Wisps and forms part of the tutorial section of the game. Here both combat and platforming skills will be put to the test. Howl can be spotted in the background as you approach the Spirit Gate after finishing the quest with Tokk. A little further on and Howl pounces through the screen, roaring.
2-Hornbug
The Horn Beetle will be very aggressive, almost relentlessly so, which can easily catch you off guard. The openings are there, but will likely be over too quickly to react the first time. The player, however, can use dash to their advantage.
Hitting him from the front won’t do any damage. The final watch out is that either side of the arena is packed full of thorns which will damage constantly. With the aggressive movement of the Horn Beetle, the player can easily get cornered there and die quickly, so keep distance.
3-Mora
Once you’ve worked your way through Mouldwood Depths, your reward is a fight against a massive spider, Mora. She’ll initially plunge you downwards, and you’ll fall into the arena properly. The handy-looking ledge here won’t be around for long, so don’t bother with it. You should notice that either side of the arena, the walls are bare, meaning they can be climbed. This will be especially useful for dodging and gaining height during the fight. On the left wall, is an Energy Crystal which will respawn over time, so get to it when you can, and use this in combination with the Regeneration move to keep your health topped up. With that and learning her moves, you shouldn’t have too much trouble. Spirit Edge is again very useful, and remember, you need to hit her head to damage her.
4-Kwolok corrupted by Stink Spirit
This is a fight in two stages, with no checkpoints. It requires a lot of patience, tests a few of your different skills and demands that you watch the enemy closely before planning your attacks. You’ll be fighting the first phase on dry land, and then the second from within the water, so be prepared. Also early on, Kwolok will smash the ground and create a pit of thorns in the middle of the floor. Avoid touching this at all costs, as it will sap your health quickly in either Phase.
5-Shriek
Shriek is large and very strong. She can fly and uses this to her advantage in chase sequences , she can attack you if you go under her with her 2 smaller claws , stomping with her bone spear limbs. She can send flames across the ground, fire out corruption projectiles. She also has a laser attack that goes from left or right side of the screen to the middle. Shriek uses her flying to destroy structures, which leads to 2nd phase where some skills are used differently. On the left or right side of the arena she fires a shotgun spread of corruption projectiles from her mouth. Shriek can quickly dive from above as well as fly from the background. When she has little health left, phase 3 begins, where there is no ground, and player has to either bash off of corruption projectiles that rain constantly or use Launch ability.
6-Willow Stone
During your quest through Willow’s End, to open up access to the Spirit Willow, you will encounter the Willow Stone mini-boss. At this stage in the game, it shouldn’t pose too much of a threat to you, especially when you understand its attack patterns and how to combat them. You can only damage Willow Stone by striking its core, which is protected by two layers of rock for most of the fight. So this is a fight about patience and using its moves against it.